---
layout: default
title: Installation
---
h2. Installation

This page explains how to install the standard Ruby or JRuby flavors of rubyrep.

h2. Which flavor?

If you just want to get started in the quickest way, choose JRuby.

For more background information, here a comparison between both flavors:

|_. &nbsp; |_. Standard Ruby flavor|_. JRuby flavor|
|Capabilities|\2=. exactly the same|
|Performance|slower|*faster* (by about one third)[1]|
|Ease of installation|harder|*easier* (more "info":installation.html)| 

fn1. rubyrep command startup time under JRuby is slower though (around 9 seconds). Under standard Ruby it is not noticable.

h2. Installing the JRuby version

Pre-condition: Java is installed (tested with version 1.8).

# Download the latest JRuby rubyrep package from "Bintray":https://bintray.com/rubyrep/rubyrep/rubyrep-jruby.
# Unzip
# Done

The @rubyrep@ command (through which everything is controlled) is available in the created folder.

h2. Installing the standard Ruby version

# Install the Ruby environment[1]
# Install the database driver.
  Normally 
  @sudo gem install pg@
  or
  @sudo gem install mysql2@
  will do the trick.
# Install rubyrep
  @sudo gem install rubyrep@

After installation, the @rubyrep@ command will be placed in the path.

fn1.
Explanation not in the scope of this document, refer to "this site":http://www.techotopia.com/index.php/Getting_and_Installing_Ruby for some pointers.

h2. Next Steps

Next step would be to configure rubyrep for whatever you want it to do.
Head to the "tutorial":tutorial.html for guides to typical scenarios.
