---
layout: default
title: Sync Command Reference
---
h2. Sync Command Reference

Syncs the differences between matching tables of 'left' and 'right' database.
This is the complete command reference. For background explanations please check the "sync tutorial":syncing.html.

|_. &nbsp; |Note|If this looks very similar to the "scan command":scan_command.html then because it is.<br/>The command line options are exactly the same.|

h2. Usage

Usage: @rubyrep sync [options] [table_spec] [table_spec] ...@ 

@table_spec@ can be either:

* a specific table name (e. g. 'users') or
* a pair of (specific) table names (e. g.: 'users,users_backup')
  (In this case the first table in the 'left' database is compared with the second table in the 'right' database.)
* a regular expression (e. g. '/^user/') [case insensitive match]

h2. Options

* @-s, --summary[=detailed]@
  Print the number of differences of each table. Either totals only, e. g.
  &nbsp;&nbsp; left_table / right_table [differences]
  or
  &nbsp;&nbsp; left_table / right_table [conflicts] [left_only records] [right_only records]
* @-d, --detailed[=mode]@
  Print the number of differences of each table. E. g.
  &nbsp;&nbsp; left_table / right_table [differences]
  followed by a full dump of the differences in the YAML format.
  The 'mode' argument determines how the row differences are printed:
** @full@ shows the full records
** @keys@ shows the primary key columns only
** @diff@ shows the primary key and differing columsn only
* @-b, --progress-bar[=length]@
  Show the progress of the table scanning process as progress bar with the specified length.
* @-c, --config=CONFIG_FILE@
  Mandatory. Path to configuration file.
* @--help@
  Show a summary of the command line options


